# Reflective: Binding

#### Alice Schaumann

## Form, Content, and Use

This week's readings and discussion highlighted the intersections of books' form, content, and use in some interesting ways. We looked at a few books that took very deliberate approaches to form from different angles. In designing _Fiapo_, Dantas and Dias were guided by the content and themes of the book. They focused on a sense of lightness they derived from reading the book, and used this as the basis for their design. By contrast, Driscoll and Squires discuss the form of marine guides, which often have laminate pages to protect against water and spiral bindings to allow them to lay flat. Here, the form of the book is guided not by content, but by the manner of use. This not only results in books with very different forms, but it gives us different impressions about the design that goes into them. Marine guide design seems very utilitarian, while the design of _Fiapo_ seems more artistic. But there are also utilitarian aspects to Dantas and Dias's design. Their layouts were not only intended to convey their concept of lightness, but also to allow for more efficient printing processes. 

Baxter's Procrustes is an interesting case because Baxter said the form was designed to fit the contents, but there were no contents. The care that went into the form of the book—the quality of the paper, the intricate inlays on the cover, etc.—either gave the illusion of similarly sophisticated content or distracted from the content to redirect attention to the value of the form. In this way, the form suited the function of the book. It was created to serve as a collector's item and as commentary on the Bodleian Club valuing appearances over actual content. In a more practical sense, it was created to give an impression of value sufficient that no one would ever engage with the content at all.

We also discussed some interesting examples of books whose form directly clashed with their content. Anson brought up collector's editions of the _Percy Jackson_ books, which content-wise are presented as a sort of clandestine publishing operation, in direct contrast with the books' flashy, ornate design. We also discussed publications of the Communist Manifesto designed as a consumer good intended to bring in a profit. I think this brings up questions about the idea of new editions of books in general. The content of different editions of books is generally the same (particularly with fiction), with perhaps some new foreword or introduction. The main thing that changes is the physical form of the book. These changes can be quite significant, especially as it gets further and further removed from the original publication. We talked, for instance, about Dickens novels that were originally published in serial. This format is vastly different from the faux-"classic" hardcovers published today, which are different from the Penguin paperback editions, etc. Because the content is the same, these are all considered the same book, but a reader's experience may vary significantly depending on which edition they read. 