# Reflective: Print I

#### Alice Schaumann

## Artistry in Letterpress Printing

An interesting theme for me this week was the interplay of artistry and efficiency in letterpress printing. Letterpress printing allowed for the mass production of books, and as it developed and proliferated it came to be consistently operated through an assembly line process. In other words, there were many industrial aspects to the letterpress process as it sought to increase the efficiency of bookmaking. Despite this, Gutenberg and subsequent printers still held onto some of the artistic aspects of bookmaking. For example, space was left in the margins of books so they could be illuminated, which not only added artwork to the book, but also meant that different copies were not exactly the same. Something from the Fry video that stuck with me was that Gutenberg created several different *E*s in different sizes to help keep the lines in his bible perfectly justified. I don't know whether this would more appropriately be considered artistry or craftsmanship, but either way it is indicative of the care Gutenberg put into the physical form of the books he was creating. I think that craftsmanship perhaps lies at the intersection of artistry and industry. 

The revival of letterpress really taps into the artistry permitted by the process. There is a physicality inherent in letterpress printing that gives an additional dimension to the form an artist can play with. For example, the Fleishman article discusses the popularity of debossing, which creates a physical impression in the paper. There is also a physicality in the process itself. Letterpress can be distinguished from word processing systems by, among other things, the individual pieces of type that must be arranged by hand to form the text and the machine that manually presses the paper and the type together to transfer the ink from one place to another. When contrasted with word processors, letterpress seems not only to allow, but to invite artistry. It is interesting, then, that contemporary letterpress printers often make use of new techniques designed for efficiency, like laser engraving and 3D printing. It feels like a new version of the 15th century interplay between artistry and efficiency.

Another key difference between word processing and letterpress is the automatization of word processing software. In Microsoft Word, a user can simply hit a button or give a command and the software will automatically align the text. For justified text, the software will increase the spacing between words to fill the lines. Compare this to Gutenberg's methods for justifying text. He would have added more spacers between words and used some of his wider letters. He would not get the gaps that Word sometimes creates—if text did not fit well he would break a word in the middle and continue it on the next line. I think the key difference here is the choice involved in letterpress printing. By aligning text automatically, Word takes away that choice and therefore, I think, part of the artistry. 

Is the revival of letterpress printing a response to this loss of artistry? The readings for this week give a few different perspectives on potential causes of the letterpress revival, from nostalgia and a taste for the "vintage effect" to the affordances technological advancements bring to letterpress printing. A.C. proposes "digital fatigue" as a driving factor, which we delved into a bit in class. One aspect of digital fatigue is wanting to do something with our hands, which, as discussed above, letterpress certainly satisfies. Another aspect is the feeling that our phones and other digital media are a sort of "black box." With letterpress, there is more of a connection to the pieces and understanding of the machine. But would writing by hand not satisfy these same desires? Not only does writing by hand provide even more direct connection to and control over the process of creating text, but it's also faster (for individual projects). I don't think digital fatigue alone can then account for the rise of letterpress. Someone in class proposed that a more accurate description would be normalization fatigue—we are tired of digital media not just because it is digital, but because it is ubiquitous. Letterpress provides a degree of novelty in addition to a break from the digital. I think perhaps the key distinction is that unlike using a word processor or writing by hand, the focus of letterpress is not the content of the text but the process of producing it. Letterpress takes up time and space and has lots of little pieces to keep track of. It feels like an endeavor.