# Reflective: WHAT IS A BOOK?

#### ALICE SCHAUMANN

## HOW DO WE THINK ABOUT THE BOOK?

Something that struck me about the reading and discussions for this week was the way older understandings of books and bookmaking practices continue to influence the way we use and think about books today. We talked a bit in class about skeuomorphs. I think they are particularly noticeable in ebooks. Borsuk remarks that ebooks seek to "create a seamless reading experience built on the affordances of the codex and the behaviors we have adapted from it." For example, an ebook reader can often swipe the screen to mimic turning the page. There is no particular reason this action should be the means to advance through an ebook, except that it is familiar to people who have read physical books. The language we use to speak about books also holds vestiges of older processes. The terms _uppercase_ and _lowercase_ refer to the physical layout of majuscule and miniscule type, for instance. We discussed in class how old technologies tend to remain in use for a while even after new technologies are developed. Some remnants of old technologies, it seems, remain even longer. 

Returning to the example of swiping the pages of ebooks, I think practices like this demonstrate how we are naturalized to certain aspects of the book. We have come to associate that particular motion with books without really thinking about why we do it. There are other aspects of books that we just know to expect, like page numbers or an index, that we don't tend to think about as things that had to be invented. The act of reading and of using these functions feels natural to us, but their creation was very deliberate. Another example of this is the prominence of roman text, as opposed to gothic. Roman text is not inherently more readable, it's what we are used to. Its ubiquity has much more to do with cultural and political influences than legibility.

The book's form is not only influenced by culture, but also by the materials and technology available. We see this beginning with the very earliest books. Sumerians used clay and reeds, while the Egyptians used papyrus and a charcoal based ink because those were the materials available to them. Over time, we can see how these relationships among culture, technology, and the form of the book grow. We are currently seeing this a lot with digital books. Borsuk discusses a few books designed for handheld touch screen devices, which take advantage of the new affordances of that medium to present a book in a way that could never be done in a print codex. These books not only incorporate images, sound, and movement, but allow for greater interaction of the reader with the text. The reader has an active role to play in moving the story along. This technology not only changes the physical form of the book, but also what the book is able to express. 