# Reflective: Zines

#### Alice Schaumann

## Creative Control

I think one of the most notable aspects of zines that we discussed in class is the way they allow writers to circumvent the publishing industry. This means that zine creators can have control over every aspect of the process, including content, form, and distribution. Because profit is not a major motivator, zine creators are much less limited in the content they can produce. They don't have to write something that will appeal to a mass market or convince publishers to support their ideas. In _'Zine_, Pagan Kennedy discusses the freedom she felt in writing her zine. Rather than "trying to attain perfection and aping 'respectable' fiction," she was able to write the content she wanted in the style she wanted. Among other things, this allowed her work to be more personal. She could write about herself endlessly and unabashedly in a way that traditional publishing simply wouldn't allow. For other writers, this freedom means something different. For some members of marginalized communities for example, not relying on the publishing industry creates opportunities to publish work that might not appeal to a mass market. Zines can therefore serve as a way to publish material by and for people with limited social capital that might not otherwise be published.

Zines also allow for the distribution of work that is not seeking a mass market in the first place. The publishing industry is designed to seek to distribute books as widely as possible. However, some people may wish to limit the distribution of their content. Some content may be highly personal, some may be intended for a specific community, some may be dangerous in the wrong hands. Zines allow this content to be distributed safely and according to the wishes of the creators. These limits, however, may not necessarily be able to be maintained indefinitely. Libraries and bookstores separate works from their authors, and if they are not sensitive to the original goals and wishes of the creators, my undermine them. The "Zine Librarians Code of Ethics" outlines some ways in which libraries can fail to respect zine creators and how this can both harm the creator and alter the way the zine is received.

Finally, zine creators have control over the physical form of their work in a way that writers don't in traditional publishing. Decisions about binding, page formatting, and other aspects of a traditional book's form are often out of the hands of writers and very standardized. Zine creators can play with form in different ways, which often results in a multimedia end product. While zine creators do have creative control, they are often limited financially. This has caused many zine creators to use similar cost-saving techniques in making and reproducing their zines, creating some common practices in zine creation that have allowed the genre to have a recognizable, though still very variable, form.