# Reflective: INTRODUCTIONS

#### ALICE SCHAUMANN

## BOOKS AND VALUE

One idea explored in this week's readings was the value of books. For instance, all of the readings in some way explored the impact of mass production on the value of a book. Livingston presents an argument from Walter Benjamin that a reproduction of a work reduces the presence or "aura" of the original work—the original is made less valuable by the presence of copies. On the other hand, Liu's Allatians seek to make as many and as accurate copies as possible precisely because of the value of the original. The original is unique, and the only possible version that can capture the nuances of the work. Because there can be no true copy, there is no challenge to the authenticity or value of the original.

The Allatians' reproductions are necessitated by the damage caused to the original when they are read. This is another quality of books that is explored in the readings—use is destructive. For the Allatians, "each time a text is read, it is also damaged and some aspects of the original irretrievably lost." This fragility adds to its value. The danger of losing it makes it all the more important to protect it. Livingston discusses a similar situation in relation to Old English manuscripts. At the British Library she views (through protective glass) the only four surviving original manuscripts containing poetry in Old English. All others have been destroyed. Like with the Allatian texts, the vulnerability of these texts lends to their value. Because they are old and rare, it is more important to protect them, and therefore not use them. 

While the Allatians do not read their texts because of their value, Price provides _The New England Primer_ as an example of a book that was valuable in a different way. Rather than for its rarity (it was the "most popular book in seventeenth- and eighteenth-century America after the Bible") the _Primer_ was valuable because it was useful. Because it was useful, it was used. And because it was used, it was destroyed. Every single copy published before 1727 was "handled to pieces." This also tells us something about the way value changes over time. The _Primer_ was valuable in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries for its use as an educational tool. Today, the educational content is not so valuable to us, but were a copy ever to be discovered it would hold great value both because it would be the only one of its kind and because of the information it could provide about the people of the time.

The value of a book (or any other artifact) is also influenced by culture. Price discusses in depth the way changes in culture and changes in book technology have influenced each other, and how that has affected our attitude towards books. We discussed in class a sort of trial period new technologies go through, where people are often skeptical at first and cling to what is known. This reflects an idealization of the past and an idea that what is new is somehow degraged. We can see this throughout history (for example, when priests warned against reading novels) and now as people ascribe greater value to print books than to digital. Culture can also determine the value we place on books because it influences the way we interact with them. Liu demonstrates this with the Hesperoe. They distrusted writing because a book could not be "interrogated like a real person." The Hesperoe were a warlike species, so their inability to engage with and, more to the point, fight with books caused them to value them less. Their development of mind mapping technologies allowed them to interact with thoughts and ideas directly, and these new types of "books" were therefore much more valuable to them.