# Reflective: Book Alterities

#### Alice Schaumann

## Books for the Future and the Future of Books

Bök's Xenotext and Paterson's Future Library were interesting projects to compare this week. While they have very different goals, both projects play with the temporal nature of books. The Xenotext creates a book which is not only capable of surviving forever, but also of continually generating new text that builds on what has already been created. The Future Library creates an archive of unpublished books written by celebrated authors, not to be published until next century. While these are very different approaches to this concept, both involve creating something now whose readable form won't exist until sometime in the future. I thought this was a very interesting concept to play with, especially given concerns we discussed a bit earlier in the semester regarding the impermanence of books—fire can destroy paper books, some technology platforms used for early digital books are now obsolete, etc. The Xenotext offers a way around those concerns, presenting a book in a form that can "persist on the planet until the sun itself explodes." The Future Library, on the other hand, is hope in the face of these concerns. The project takes it on faith that the trees will survive until 2114, that the manuscript will remain both intact and unread, that there will be people to execute the project and people to read the books. The Future Library operates with the expectation that these books will be able to be read in the future, while the Xenotext operates with the expectation that it won't.

In some ways, this focus on the future makes me question both projects. If the Xenotext continues to produce more poems long after there is anyone around to read them, then what is the point of producing them. What is the value in a book if it cannot be read? For the Future Library, what is the point of storing all of these manuscripts to be published later? Emre writes that the books in the Future Library are not meant to be read, but to be worshipped and desired. Their value comes from the very fact that we cannot read them. The project in some ways feels like a celebration of books, but the way the books are intended to be valued has little to do with their use as books; it's about their inaccessibility. 

Not only will current potential readers be dead before the Future Library's books are published, but so will the authors. I've always felt a little weird about books that are published after their authors' deaths. I think it has to do with the publication being so removed from the author. While, depending on how a book is published, an author might not have much input into the publication process regardless, I think it is a bit different when an author is not capable of voicing any opinion on the matter. Also, though this is not an issue for the Future Library, books published after the deaths of their authors may be at different stages in the writing process. Stieg Larsson died shortly after _The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo_ was accepted for publication, so he was fully involved the process up to the point of publication. In contrast, David Foster Wallace's _The Pale King_ was compiled by his editor, Michael Pietsch, from manuscripts and computer files found after his suicide. A step further removed is Anne Frank's diary, which she wrote for herself, not necessarily intending for it to be published or indeed to have any audience at all. 

A writer's original manuscript and work that is ultimately published are often very different. Harper Lee's _Go Set a Watchman_ is an interesting example here. (Lee was still alive when it was published, though there were questions as to whether she was sufficiently competent to consent to its publishing). Lee wrote _Go Set a Watchman_ in 1957, and her editor encouraged her to further develop the flashbacks to Scout's childhood and use them as the basis for a new novel, which ultimately became _To Kill a Mockingbird_. This makes for some interesting differences between the two novels in the processes that resulted in the final published text. _To Kill a Mockingbird_ had a lot more involvement from Lee's editor, who did not consider _Go Set a Watchman_ to be ready for publication. 

Lee's books and Wallace's _The Pale King_ highlight the degree of involvement editors can have in creating the final text. It is interesting to see how that role is changing as the publishing industry changes. As Mod pointed out, the rise of digital books and innovations in publishing have allowed for much more self-published work. The changes in the publishing industry have brought publishing to the masses in a way that is reminiscent of the printing press's role in bringing books and reading to the masses. The rise of self-publication may mean a smaller role for editors, depending on how authors go about publishing. I don't know that this change will be significant, but it will be interesting to see what, if any, impacts a potentially diminishing role for editors has on literature. 